README.md, before:

# freeCodeCamp_courses
In this repo, I will put the code that I worked on during my learning at the freeCodeCamp courses!

# Python Course
## caesar.py -> Caesar Encryption Application  
This mini project is used to encrypt plaintext or decrypt encrypted_text 
The user can input the text that they wanna encrypt or decrypt, and also specify the shift amount.

<img src="Python/logo/caesar_encryption.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## RPG_char_builder.py -> An RPG Character Builder
A small program that creates an RPG character after validating the character name and three stats (Strength, Intelligence, and Charisma). The function must ensure the name follows specific rules (type, length, no spaces, etc.), the stats are valid integers within the range, and their total equals 7. If everything is valid, it returns a formatted character sheet displaying the character name and stat bars using full and empty dots.

<img src="Python/logo/rbg_character_builder.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## pin_extractor.py -> A Pin Extractor from Poems
Given a poem or more, this mini project is used to extract the hidden pins in the input poems, where the nth digit of the pin is hidden as the length of the nth word in the nth line, e.g., the first digit of the pin is hidden as the length of the first word in the first line.

<img src="Python/logo/extractor.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## medical_data_validator.py -> A Medical Data Validator
A small program that validates a list of medical records to ensure they follow a consistent format. Each record is checked to confirm it is a dictionary containing the required fields (patient ID, age, gender, diagnosis, medications, and last visit ID). If any record or field is invalid, the program reports detailed error messages indicating the unexpected format and the position of the faulty record; otherwise, it confirms that all records are valid.

<img src="Python/logo/med.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## build_a_user_configuration_manager.py -> A User Configuration Manager
This program allows users to manage their settings such as theme, language, and notifications. I implemented functions to add, update, delete, and view user settings.

<img src="Python/logo/user.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## ISBN_validator.py -> AN ISBN validator
The ISBN (International Standard Book Number) is a unique identifier assigned to commercial books. It can be either 10 or 13 digits long, and the last digit is a check digit calculated from the other digits. When the user runs the program, it will show the prompt **Enter ISBN and length:** The user can enter the ISBN code they want to validate in **ISBN,length** format. The ISBN code should not contain hyphens, followed by its length (10 or 13), separated by a comma.

Example inputs: 1530051126,10 for ISBN-10 codes. 9781530051120,13 for ISBN-13 codes.

<img src="Python/logo/isbn.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## planet_class.py -> A Planet Class
This Python exercise defines a Planet class that represents a planet and its basic properties, along with simple validation to ensure all attributes are valid.  It provides methods to display planet information and simulate orbital behavior.

<img src="Python/logo/planet.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## email_simulator.py -> An Email Simulator 
This mini program simulates sending, receiving, and managing emails between different users, by implementing classes, objects, and how to organize code in an object-oriented way.

<img src="Python/logo/email.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## budget_app.py -> A Budget App 
This simple budget app tracks spending in different categories and can show the relative spending percentage on a graph.

<img src="Python/logo/budget_app.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## salary_tracker.py -> A Salary Tracker System
A salary tracking system for employees.

<img src="Python/logo/salary.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## game_char_stats_tracker.py -> A Game Character Stats Tracker
A game character stats tracker. The program will allow you to create a character with specific attributes, update those attributes, and retrieve the current stats of the character.

## media_catalogue.py -> A Media Catalogue System
A media catalogue system that manages movies and TV series using object-oriented principles, with validation, inheritance, custom exceptions, and categorized display of media items.

## discount_calculator.py -> A Discount Calculator
A discount calculator that can apply different discount strategies to products. The system will determine the best price for a customer based on multiple discount rules.

## player_interface.py -> A Player Interface
A simple game system in which a character moves randomly on a grid, keeps track of where it has been, and gains additional movement options as it levels up.

## polygon_calculator.py -> A Polygon Area Calculator
This mini program defines Rectangle and Square classes to model basic geometric shapes. It calculates area, perimeter, and diagonal length; it can draw the shape using stars. This program also demonstrates how many times one shape can fit inside another without rotation.

## linked_list_implementation.py -> A LinkedList Implementation 
This singly linked list implementation allows adding elements to the end of the list, removing a specific element, checking whether the list is empty, and tracking the number of elements using a length variable.

## hash_table.py -> A Hash Table Implementation from Scratch 
A hash table implementation from scratch. A hash table is a data structure that stores the key as an input and then hashing this key according to specific hashing function. The hashing function used is summing the unicode values of each character in the key. The hash value will then be used as the actual key to store the associated value, the same hash value would also be used to retrieve and delete the value associated with the key.

Commit message:

Refine hash table description and add binary search section
Updated the hash table description for clarity and added a new section for binary search implementation.

README.md, after:

# freeCodeCamp_courses
In this repo, I will put the code that I worked on during my learning at the freeCodeCamp courses!

# Python Course
## caesar.py -> Caesar Encryption Application  
This mini project is used to encrypt plaintext or decrypt encrypted_text 
The user can input the text that they wanna encrypt or decrypt, and also specify the shift amount.

<img src="Python/logo/caesar_encryption.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## RPG_char_builder.py -> An RPG Character Builder
A small program that creates an RPG character after validating the character name and three stats (Strength, Intelligence, and Charisma). The function must ensure the name follows specific rules (type, length, no spaces, etc.), the stats are valid integers within the range, and their total equals 7. If everything is valid, it returns a formatted character sheet displaying the character name and stat bars using full and empty dots.

<img src="Python/logo/rbg_character_builder.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## pin_extractor.py -> A Pin Extractor from Poems
Given a poem or more, this mini project is used to extract the hidden pins in the input poems, where the nth digit of the pin is hidden as the length of the nth word in the nth line, e.g., the first digit of the pin is hidden as the length of the first word in the first line.

<img src="Python/logo/extractor.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## medical_data_validator.py -> A Medical Data Validator
A small program that validates a list of medical records to ensure they follow a consistent format. Each record is checked to confirm it is a dictionary containing the required fields (patient ID, age, gender, diagnosis, medications, and last visit ID). If any record or field is invalid, the program reports detailed error messages indicating the unexpected format and the position of the faulty record; otherwise, it confirms that all records are valid.

<img src="Python/logo/med.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## build_a_user_configuration_manager.py -> A User Configuration Manager
This program allows users to manage their settings such as theme, language, and notifications. I implemented functions to add, update, delete, and view user settings.

<img src="Python/logo/user.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## ISBN_validator.py -> AN ISBN validator
The ISBN (International Standard Book Number) is a unique identifier assigned to commercial books. It can be either 10 or 13 digits long, and the last digit is a check digit calculated from the other digits. When the user runs the program, it will show the prompt **Enter ISBN and length:** The user can enter the ISBN code they want to validate in **ISBN,length** format. The ISBN code should not contain hyphens, followed by its length (10 or 13), separated by a comma.

Example inputs: 1530051126,10 for ISBN-10 codes. 9781530051120,13 for ISBN-13 codes.

<img src="Python/logo/isbn.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## planet_class.py -> A Planet Class
This Python exercise defines a Planet class that represents a planet and its basic properties, along with simple validation to ensure all attributes are valid.  It provides methods to display planet information and simulate orbital behavior.

<img src="Python/logo/planet.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## email_simulator.py -> An Email Simulator 
This mini program simulates sending, receiving, and managing emails between different users, by implementing classes, objects, and how to organize code in an object-oriented way.

<img src="Python/logo/email.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## budget_app.py -> A Budget App 
This simple budget app tracks spending in different categories and can show the relative spending percentage on a graph.

<img src="Python/logo/budget_app.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## salary_tracker.py -> A Salary Tracker System
A salary tracking system for employees.

<img src="Python/logo/salary.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">

## game_char_stats_tracker.py -> A Game Character Stats Tracker
A game character stats tracker. The program will allow you to create a character with specific attributes, update those attributes, and retrieve the current stats of the character.

## media_catalogue.py -> A Media Catalogue System
A media catalogue system that manages movies and TV series using object-oriented principles, with validation, inheritance, custom exceptions, and categorized display of media items.

## discount_calculator.py -> A Discount Calculator
A discount calculator that can apply different discount strategies to products. The system will determine the best price for a customer based on multiple discount rules.

## player_interface.py -> A Player Interface
A simple game system in which a character moves randomly on a grid, keeps track of where it has been, and gains additional movement options as it levels up.

## polygon_calculator.py -> A Polygon Area Calculator
This mini program defines Rectangle and Square classes to model basic geometric shapes. It calculates area, perimeter, and diagonal length; it can draw the shape using stars. This program also demonstrates how many times one shape can fit inside another without rotation.

## linked_list_implementation.py -> A LinkedList Implementation 
This singly linked list implementation allows adding elements to the end of the list, removing a specific element, checking whether the list is empty, and tracking the number of elements using a length variable.

## hash_table.py -> A Hash Table Implementation from Scratch 
A hash table implementation from scratch. A hash table is a data structure that stores the key as an input and then hashes this key according to a specific hashing function. The hashing function used is summing the Unicode values of each character in the key. The hash value will then be used as the actual key to store the associated value; the same hash value would also be used to retrieve and delete the value associated with the key.

## binary_search.py -> A Binary Search Implementation from Scratch
A simple implementation for binary search from scratch.
